# Fast Food Restaurant Kiosk System 🍔🍟

In this project, we designed a system that simulates a fast food kiosk using IntelliJ IDEA Community Edition. The program displays a menu similar to one you might find in a fast food restaurant. The user makes a selection and then presses a JButton to mark the end of the selection process. The program then calculates and displays the bill. 


### PROBLEM ANALYSIS AND GUI AND ALGORITHM DESIGN

In this system, there are five GUI components: a frame, a label, a list, a text area, and a button. All components other than the frame are placed into the content pane of the window. The user selects various list items and then presses the Selection Completed button. Recall that when you click a button, it generates an action event, which is processed by using the interface ActionListener. Therefore, we created and registered an action listener object with the button.

When the event is generated, the event handler computes the subtotal, tax, and total. The program then displays the result in the text area. To create the label, list, text area, and button, we used reference variables of the types JLabel, JList, JTextArea, and JButton, respectively. We also need a reference variable to access the content pane of the window. We create the class containing the application program by extending the definition of the class JFrame; this also allows us to create the necessary window to create the GUI. Thus, we use the reference variables like 1) private List yourChoices; 2) private JTextArea bill; 3) private Container pane; 4) JLabel yourChoicesJLabel; and 5) JButton button; to create the GUI components and to access the content pane of the window.

The next step is to instantiate four GUI components and initialize the pane using the method getContentPane. Recall that, to create a list, we first create an array of strings and then use the array as the argument in the constructor of the JList. We can instantiate other GUI components the same way we have done previously. This program uses the Border Layout to neatly place all four GUI components. We placed the label in the NORTH region and set the font of this label, we created the list in the WEST region and set the font of this list, we created the text area in the EAST region and set the font of this text area, and we created the button and placed it in the SOUTH region and added an action listener.

The statements such as a) private JList yourChoices; b) private c) JTextArea bill; d) private Container pane; e) pane = getContentPane (); f) pane.setBackground (new Color (0, 200, 200)); and g) pane.setLayout (new BorderLayout (5, 5)); create the necessary GUI components and place them in the container. Then, we placed a statement that need another array to keep track of the prices of the various items and we placed a statement that set the size of the window and set its visibility to true.

Recall that when an action event is generated by a button, the method actionPerformed is invoked. When the user clicks the button, the program must compute the subtotal, tax, and total, and display the result in the text area. The instructions to perform these tasks are placed in the method actionPerformed, which is described next.

#### Method actionPerformed

As noted previously, the method actionPerformed is executed when the user clicks the button. The method action Performed calculates and displays the bill. We write the method displayBill that computes the bill and displays it using the text area. The method actionPerformed invokes the method displayBill to display the bill. 

#### Method displayBill

The method displayBill first needs to identify the items selected by the user. The method get SelectedIndices of the JList will return an array of indices. Because we need an integer array to hold these indices, we placed a Java statements int[] listArray = yourChoices.getSelectedIndices (); double localTax double tax; = 0.065; a1=( double 1total = 0 double total;.

Note that listArray[0], listArray[1]...., listArray[listArray.length-11 contains the indices of the items selected from the menu list. Therefore, we created statements for loop computes the total cost of the items selected from the menu. Next, we compute the tax and add it to subTotal to get the billing amount. To display the bill, we append the necessary statements to the JTextArea and invoke the repaint method to redraw the GUI components. To place another order, unselect the selected items.


## Authors 👩‍💻👩‍💻👨‍💻👨‍💻👨‍💻

* Shiela Mae Febrero
* Jenny Miraflores
* Charles Fines
* Charles Justine Gentolia
* Gemuel Sioson
